
judge a man by his question than his answers

2 type of question 
1. open questin
closed quest: 

the power of questioning

question should be asked properly and it shows your impression on other

type of question show your personality

closed quest ans one word or mcq 
open quest ans more info and quality

few advanced technique for question 
leading how is he? ( excellent or very excellent) ans is given
probing: force more deeply to think about it  
funneling: series of quest with closed and open ques
rhetorical:

art of questioning

power questions book read 

what most impresses you 

quality of their questions
how intently they listen


goals achievement

set smart goals
smart goals

s. specific
m. measurable
a: actionable
r: relevant 
t: time bound

80/20 rule for goal management 

write down 10 goals

then check these things 

1. which one goal would have the greatest impact on your life?
2. work at that goals all the time 
3. resist to clean up small things first.

85% of rich people has one goal that they work at all the time and only 3% of poor people have one goal so they do not work on it much.

do you use 80/20 rule to achieve the goal 



how to give negative feedback 

1. get your emotions under control
2. find a private place
3. consider timing (it should be given asap as event passes)
4. focus on the actions, not the person
5. be direct
6. describe specific behaviour
7. stop talking and seek confirmation (let the other person tell also)
8. reaffirm your faith in the person
9. define positive steps, provide possible solutions and be goal oriented.
10. document the feedback for future reference.


3 proven goal setting strategy

mantra must be positive

goal mantra write it on note card and read it when require.


set up an environment that motivates you 

distraction leave 

take 15 min break after 45 min

use inevitable thinking like 

20$ if i unable to get up early in the morning at 6am

pick one goal for next 30 days because it will become habit

create an action plan and tiny steps take daily wise 

focus on activity (like on 10 pages a day) not on end result
motivation down when focus on end result and failure increases







