 many: plenty,plethora, numerous, various, countless, abundance 
 advantage: pros, merits, benefits, positives
 disadvantage: cons, demerits, -ves, ill effects, shortcomings, limitations, drawbacks
 
 
 fame: state of being famous 
 blender is a versatile machine 
 unconventional:
 glitz and glam 
 glitz of tinseltown: superficially glamourous
 
 film industry 
 
 glorious, well renowned (very famous) actor
 comedian : witty (the way they expresses having humorous) (action humour)
 stellar performance by amitabh bachan in sholey
 versatile actor: very flexible ( adapted into any environment ) can do any character
 
 tech(n)logy
  fit as a fiddle (good health) he is fit as a feedle
  brave and fierce (aggression in good way)
  subhash chandra boss was brave and fierce 
  quite and reserved : introvert 
  pestes, pestering (making a noise) children keeps pestering 
  toiling: hard working : farmers are toiling 
  robust:(strong): java is robust language
  mitigate: reduce ( cut down)
  double-edged sword: globalization is double edged sword like it creates job opportunities and but it also damaged cultural values.
  well-rounded: well balanced or well planned society: to bring up well rounded society
  physical health and mental wellbeing: introduction of exercises is good for physical health and mental wellbeing.
  
 perpetual traffic- congestion 
 should- ought to
 using - utilizing
 improve - deter
 levy- impose
 
 
 instrumental (getting useful)
 help you to achieve something 
 advancement and technology are instrumental behind a shift of hobby
 
 better insight(better overview) or
 better understanding 
 
 vibrant 
 persuade: to approach 
 optimum: best out of 
 more suitable solution 
 perceive: realise 
 people of rural area perceived 
 rustic: very simple
 ewe: who lives
 dwell
 scrapers: tall buildings 
 
 lexical words 
 
 hetrogenic : mix of the things (people of everything)
 hetrogenic society
 cosmopolitan environment: highly developed society 
 live in high city like bengaluru, mumbai
 woo: please somebody 
 frightening consequences: (-ve about) 
 prime importance
 exorbidant: very high 
 use of fertilizer can cause agriculture damage 
 
 curse : curse on a world
 (bad of society)
 
 our population is curse on the world.
 
 Infuriate: make someone extremly angry
 
 flaxonical: living together harmony
 rocketting growth
 
 sense of curiousity.
 
 
 dash of line : very small 
 poha as story 
 poha -> exquic 
 lentil
 sweeth tooth : crazy alot 
 desserts: love desserts 
 i have a sweet tooth 
 comfort food: not daily food 
 feel of home 
 
 it is the ultimate comfort food for most of the indians including me
 scruncious: tasty, delicious
 
 burglary: stolen something
 forgery: false documentation 
 dilemma: conclusion 
 in doubt: unsure, uncertain
 sckeptical
 hesitant
 reluctant
 
 instead of stuff -> use items
 do not use informal 
 guy : male or man 
 cops: police: law enforcement
 bad: unsatisfactory
 highly disappointed
 
 
 it is widely accepted that 
 it is generally thought that 
 common opinion, popular belief, generally considered to be 
 it is obvious that 
 there is no doubt that 
 
 
 substance abuse: usage of drugs 
 corporal punishment: physical punishment 
 spanking : beating 
 capital punishment: death punishment 
 undoubtfully
 government: ruling party, bureaurat, law enforcement agency 
 
 lack : shortening, unavailability
 harmful: lethal  ( very harmful and destructive) 
 pernishes: detrimental, unfavourable, destructive, toxic, turmoil(distress)
 deceptive: giving an appearance or impression different from the true one; misleading.
 
 Glossophobia or speech anxiety is the fear of public speaking or of speaking in general. 
 
 visual aid :an item of illustrative matter, such as a film, slide, or model, designed to supplement written or spoken information so that it can be understood more easily.
 gesture:  a movement of part of the body, especially a hand or the head, to express an idea or meaning.
 oratorical:  practice of public speaking.
 cannotation: arth
 
 documentary: Documentaries are also educational and often used in schools to teach various principles. ( i think like facebook)
  Documentaries are also educational and often used in schools to teach various principles.
  
  adverts: advertisement.
  across: from one side to other 
  we came across various adverts.
  
  प्रलोभन
temptation, bait, seduction, inducement, decoy, lure

an advert can lure wide range of people.


wide spread: internet has become wide spread
perception of life : newspaper helps one to take decision in life and to have right perception of life.

deserves appreciation 

thrist for education,
           general knowledge
		   justice
		   
it enhances (improves)
it sounds good 
objectivity: rationality 
it is noted for its objectivity in reporting news and for its well balanced views.

caters: caters to the needs of young generation 

futuristic outlook: 
sweeping coverage: wide range 

we can not recommend some sweeping attractions 

staggering: very shocking : staggering reports 
staggering bills for maintenance and repair 

very vivid: i vividly remember
vivid ( clear picture) 
meticulous: very detail or very precise

beyond compare: something is beyond compare 
insight: anything give insight view
nurturing: careful 

   teacher nurtue students in growing stage she approches issues objectively or have rational approach is commentable.
   practices what she preaches : person of world 
   enduring: suffer
   endearing: very lovable or adorable 
   she is very endearing 
   children are agile and endearing 
   music of yester years: the films of yester years 
   captivating
   grace and passion 
   numerous, countless instead of many 
   but -> however, nevertheless 
   remember, vividly recall 
   he is a man of few words
   crucial role: 
   naive: it is naive (foolish) to believe that this is greed and so on.
   monotonous: doing something repetively
   
   chaos: confusion, very messy
   inhibition: restriction, hindrance
   manipulate: wrong way influence
   manipulate facts 
   pinnacle: highest point of success 
   verdict: judgement, view 
   what is your verdict 
   vendalism: damaging govt property 
   use it in writing also 
   depict: represent by a drawing, painting, or other art form.
   servery results depicts positive outcomes 
   incubate: be developing an infectious disease before symptoms appear.
   proactive: (of a person or action) creating or controlling a situation rather than just responding to it after it has happened.
   nurture: care for and protect (someone or something) while they are growing   
   hurl or launch (something) with or as if with a catapult.
   pivotal: of crucial importance in relation to the development or success of something else.
   
   very interesting: fascinating, amusing, thrilled
   very opened: transparent
   very honest: straight forward, frank 
   very poor: impoverished
   very rich: wealthy, prosperous,elite
   very big: huge 
   normal: gigantic 
   very crowded: cramped, jam packed 
   i heard a fascinating story 
   he gave straight forward response 
   we d impoverished 
   this is a prosperous 
   some people are petrified of snakes
   very angry: furious, indignemant
   the indigneal customer complained about productivity 
   sky scrappers: high buildings
   high paying jobs: lucrative jobs
   essay also write it 
   before writing essay not 
   i am flooded with questions
   traumatize: cause physical injury to: violent films may traumatize some people
   ambience:the character and atmosphere of a place. 
   I love the ambience of the library
   fond: having an affection or liking for
   i have very fond memories of the time i spent there
   affiliated: being in close formal or informal association; related:
	this school is affiliated to cbse board.
	

